A function that’s part of a class is a method


 The __init__() method at is a special method
that Python runs automatically whenever we create a new instance based
on the class.


two leading underscores and two trailing underscores, a convention that helps prevent Python’s default method
names from conflicting with your method names...If you use just one on each side, the
method won’t be called automatically when you use your class, which can
result in errors that are difficult to identify.



The self parameter is required in the method definition, and it
must come first before the other parameters. It must be included in the definition because when Python calls this method later (to create an instance
of Dog), the method call will automatically pass the self argument. Every
method call associated with an instance automatically passes self, which is
a reference to the instance itself; it gives the individual instance access to
the attributes and methods in the class. When we make an instance of Dog,
Python will call the __init__() method from the Dog class. We’ll pass Dog()
a name and an age as arguments; self is passed automatically, so we don’t
need to pass it. Whenever we want to make an instance from the Dog class,
we’ll provide values for only the last two parameters, name and age.



Any variable
prefixed with self is available to every method in the class, and we’ll also be
able to access these variables through any instance created from the class.
The line self.name = name takes the value associated with the parameter name
and assigns it to the variable name, which is then attached to the instance
being created. The same process happens with self.age = age. Variables that
are accessible through instances like this are called attributes.



🧠 Think like this:

    self = current object (instance)

    self.x = "store this on me (the object)"

    Without self, you're just creating temporary local variables inside a method that vanish after the method ends.



    class Dog:
    def __init__(self, name):
        name = name  # ❌ does nothing useful

This does not assign name to the object. It creates a useless local variable name = name.



The Dog class has two other methods defined: sit() and roll_over() y.
Because these methods don’t need additional information to run, we just
define them to have one parameter, self. The instances we create later
will have access to these methods. In other words, they’ll be able to sit and
roll over. For now, sit() and roll_over() don’t do much. They simply print
a message saying the dog is sitting or rolling over. But the concept can be
extended to realistic situations: if this class were part of an actual computer game, these methods would contain code to make an animated dog
sit and roll over. If this class was written to control a robot, these methods
would direct movements that cause a robotic dog to sit and roll over.

